---
eip: 197
title: Bypass EIP presentation
network: Ethereum & Optimism
status: Rejected
type: Meta-Governance
author: Kain (@kaiynne)
implementor: Kain (@kaiynne)
release: N/A
created: 2021-12-21
proposal: >-
  https://snapshot.org/#/snxgov.eth/proposal/QmTZoUgzgxAopns2tvHeaqpuP6Sa73SEP8bS29YzEzsSuQ

---

## Simple Summary

<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Simply describe the outcome the proposed changes intends to achieve. This should be non-technical and accessible to a casual community member.-->

Update governance to allow the Elysian Council to bypass the EIP presentation requirement, on the condition that the subsequent vote passes unanimously in order for the EIP to be implemented.

## Abstract

There have been several urgent EIPs recently which ideally would have been able to bypass presentation to the Elysian Council. One of these was a bug fix which was discussed with the council and then voted on and implemented with 7/8 members voting. This fix was implemented in less than 12 hours and did not provide sufficient oversight to the community. Another EIP was blocked for several days while waiting for a presentation to be organised. In both case the optimal solution would be to allow the Council to bypass the need for a presentation in order to urgently implement a fix, but without bypassing the established governance framework. The risk is that bypassing a presentation could allow five of eight Council members to implement a change that does not have sufficient community support and oversight. The compromise proposed in this EIP is to allow for a presentation to be bypassed but require that the Council unanimously passes the EIP with an n/n vote. It is also critical that the intention to propose such a vote is highlight to the community, so a new type of EIP is proposed, in addition to Goverance and Meta-Governance if passed this EIP will add a type; Hot-fix.

## Motivation

We need a mechanism to allow for urgent fixes to be implemented provided there is unanimous consensus within the Council on the urgency of the fix.

## Specification

<!--The specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature, there are five sections
1. Overview
2. Rationale
3. Technical Specification
4. Test Cases
5. Configurable Values
-->

### Overview

<!--This is a high level overview of *how* the EIP will solve the problem. The overview should clearly describe how the new feature will be implemented.-->

Add a new EIP type Hot-fix, and ensure that the pDAO does not implement a EIP of this type without an n/n vote in the affirmative.

### Rationale

<!--This is where you explain the reasoning behind how you propose to solve the problem. Why did you propose to implement the change in this way, what were the considerations and trade-offs. The rationale fleshes out what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work. The rationale may also provide evidence of consensus within the community, and should discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.-->

There are scenarios where an urgent fix is required, while historically the pDAO has the discretion to implement a change in an emergency, this bypasses the legitimate governance framework of the protocol. However, requiring every change to go through the entire EIP flow is inefficient if there is consenus between the pDAO and the Council that a change is urgently required. This EIP proposes a compromise between these two objectives to allow for a rapid roll out of a EIP with a higher threshold of consensus, this is the same approach taken with Meta-governance EIPs which require unanimous consensus in order to pass.

### Technical Specification

<!--The technical specification should outline the public API of the changes proposed. That is, changes to any of the interfaces Elysian currently exposes or the creations of new ones.-->
N/A

### Test Cases

<!--Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for EIPs but can be included with the implementation..-->

N/A

### Configurable Values (Via ECCP)

<!--Please list all values configurable via ECCP under this implementation.-->

There are no configurable values associated with this EIP.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
