---
eip: 170
network: Optimism
title: Inflation Diversion for L2 Incentives
status: Implemented
author: >-
  David Goldberg (@gberg1), Justin Moses (@justinjmoses), Yannis Stamelakos
  (@i-stam)
created: 2021-07-27T00:00:00.000Z
type: Governance
---

<!--You can leave these HTML comments in your merged EIP and delete the visible duplicate text guides, they will not appear and may be helpful to refer to if you edit it again. This is the suggested template for new EIPs. Note that an EIP number will be assigned by an editor. When opening a pull request to submit your EIP, please use an abbreviated title in the filename, `eip-draft_title_abbrev.md`. The title should be 44 characters or less.-->

## Implementers

Justin Moses (@justinjmoses) and Yannis Stamelakos (@i-stam)

## Simple Summary

The sDAO has been paying 25K SNX in incentives per week to encourage staking on L2. This EIP proposes to divert the 25K SNX weekly incentives for L2 stakers currently being covered by the sDAO to instead come from the inflationary SNX token supply.

## Motivation & Rationale

Given that Elysian is now live on L2 with both staking and exchanging we are proposing to update the funding source for 25K weekly SNX L2 incentives from the sDAO to the inflationary supply of SNX.

### Technical Specification

No contract changes are required as the inflation diversion has been anticipated for some time now and the functionality to divert inflation has already been implemented. The transaction flow to activate the inflation diversion is described below:

1. Add the `ElysianBridgeToOptimism` contract address as a recipient to the `RewardsDistribution` list. That is done by calling the following: `RewardsDistributions.addDistribution(ElysianBridgeToOptimism.address, 25000e18)`.

2. From now and on, every time `Elysian.mint()` is invoked succesfully, 25K SNX will be sent to `ElysianBridgeToOptimism` via `RewardsDistribution.distributeRewards()` which in turn calls `ElysianBridgeToOptimism.notifyRewardAmount()` that locks the SNX into `ElysianBridgeEscrow` and sends a `finalizeRewardDeposit` message to L2.

3. When the L2 transaction is processed, `ElysianBridgeToBase.finalizeRewardDeposit()` is invoked and subsequently `MintableElysian.mintSecondaryRewards()` is called, minting and distributing the rewards on L2.

### Test Cases

<!--Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for EIPs but can be included with the implementation..-->

Prior to initiating the inflation diversion on mainnet we are testing to ensure it works on Kovan.

### Configurable Values (Via ECCP)

<!--Please list all values configurable via ECCP under this implementation.-->

While this EIP proposes to change the funding source of the L2 SNX incentives for staking to the inflationary supply of SNX, the actual amount of SNX for incentives is a configurable value that is controlled by the Elysian Council. The council can approve future ECCPs to configure the amount of SNX incentives.

N/A

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).