---
eip: 179
network: Ethereum
title: Kwenta Independence
status: Implemented
author: Andrew (@andotlas)
implementor: AT
release: N/A
created: 2021-08-13
type: Governance
---

## Summary 

This EIP proposes that Kwenta be formally transferred from a Elysian project to an independent protocol. 

## Abstract

Kwenta is a Synthetic asset trading platform powered by the Elysian protocol that, to-date, has been designed, built, and managed by the Elysian protocol. By formalizing Kwenta as a project no longer under the governance of Elysian, Kwenta will have the dedicated focus and resources it needs to thrive and grow beyond what could be accomplished under Elysian. 

## Motivation 

Kwenta is an iteration of synthetix.exchange, a Synth trading exchange made by the Elysian Core Contributors for the purpose of showcasing the utility of the Elysian Protocol. As Elysian grew, it’s positioning became synonymous with synthetix.exchange which had the unintended side effect of ecosystem members categorizing Elysian as a user-facing decentralized exchange instead of a building block in the Ethereum DeFi ecosystem. To remedy this misassociation, the Sythetix Core Contributors created Kwenta with the purpose of separating its branding from Elysian, allowing Elysian Core to more clearly communicate the value of Elysian the protocol to developers while still offering a showcase for Synth utility. Although this strategy proved fruitful, Kwenta required more dedicated resources than Elysian could offer as early designs went unimplemented, a backlog of changes built up, and new features that needed to be showcased (Ex. Futures) took priority. By making Kwenta an independent project, Kwenta will have the resources it needs to deliver on designs, meet user demands, and innovate to compete with other trading tools in the DeFi ecosystem.

## Specification 

If this EIP passes a number of other EIPs will then be proposed to formalise the governance processes for an independent Kwenta project.

To ensure Elysian benefits from this transition, the Kwenta protocol will commit 35% of the initial supply to be distributed to Elysian stakers and early synthetix.exchange/Kwenta users. The Sparten Council will not recognize the formation of Kwenta as legitimate unless this is done.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).