---
eip: 186
network: Ethereum
title: Risk Committee
status: Feasibility
author: 'Andy T CF (@andytcf), Afif Bandak (@@aband1), Darius (@darius.przydzial)'
created: 2021-09-28T00:00:00.000Z
type: Governance
---

<!--You can leave these HTML comments in your merged EIP and delete the visible duplicate text guides, they will not appear and may be helpful to refer to if you edit it again. This is the suggested template for new EIPs. Note that an EIP number will be assigned by an editor. When opening a pull request to submit your EIP, please use an abbreviated title in the filename, `eip-draft_title_abbrev.md`. The title should be 44 characters or less.-->

# Simple Summary

<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Simply describe the outcome the proposed changes intends to achieve. This should be non-technical and accessible to a casual community member.-->

This EIP aims to introduce a new governing body called the Risk Committee, consisting of members selected from the other governing bodies of Elysian (i.e Elysian Council, Treasury Council) who will be responsible for risk analysis for the Elysian Protocol.

# Abstract

<!--A short (~200 word) description of the proposed change, the abstract should clearly describe the proposed change. This is what *will* be done if the EIP is implemented, not *why* it should be done or *how* it will be done. If the EIP proposes deploying a new contract, write, "we propose to deploy a new contract that will do x".-->

If this EIP is approved, the Elysian DAO will be expanded to include a Risk Committee consisting of 5 members selected from the existing governing bodies.

They will be responsible for:

- Establishing an initial process for the analysis of risk within the Elysian Protocol in the form of a EIP (i.e monetary policies, external partnerships/programs)
- Carrying out the risk analysis to be introduced in the EIP life-cycle
- Providing risk analysis summaries for the Elysian Council to take in consideration when debating and voting on EIPs

# Motivation

<!--This is the problem statement. This is the *why* of the EIP. It should clearly explain *why* the current state of the protocol is inadequate.  It is critical that you explain *why* the change is needed, if the EIP proposes changing how something is calculated, you must address *why* the current calculation is inaccurate or wrong. This is not the place to describe how the EIP will address the issue!-->

In a complex system such as the Elysian Protocol, there are significant risks to modifying the Protocol. These risk can be introduced via changes internally, such as through the EIP process or externally, through ecosystem economics that may affect the Elysian Network.

As we continue moving towards decentralized governance, it is important we establish a body that solely focuses on risk within the Elysian Protocol.

# Specification

<!--The specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature, there are five sections
1. Overview
2. Rationale
3. Technical Specification
4. Test Cases
5. Configurable Values
-->

### Overview

<!--This is a high level overview of *how* the EIP will solve the problem. The overview should clearly describe how the new feature will be implemented.-->

The Risk Committee (RC) will be in responsible for managing and responding to the risks within the Elysian Protocol. More specifically they initially will be in charge of:

1. The "Risk Analysis" stage that will be introduced in the EIP workflow
2. Protocol Risk Oversight
3. Recommendations for ECCP based parameter changes

#### EIP Workflow

The RC will be responsible for an additional step in the EIP workflow which will run in parallel with the engineering "feasibility". In this step, the RC will be responsible for conducting an in-depth risk analysis to provide to the Elysian Council to utilize during their debating and voting process.

Each EIP will be assigned an extra status decided on by the RC, from the following:

- Acceptable
- Caution
- Review Required
- Non-Acceptable

_Acceptable_

If a EIP is assigned this label, the RC has found that there is negligible risk in the proposed EIP.

_Caution_

EIPs marked with this label require additional review of the highlighted risks by the Elysian Council when debating and voting on the EIP.

_Non-Acceptable_

This label should be used by the RC if a particular EIP fails the criteria\* created by the RC that the relevant stakeholders deem unacceptable risk to the Elysian Protocol.

\*Criteria - The RC is to introduce a criteria that outlines the certain risk that they propose are unacceptable to the Elysian Protocol

The RC will also be able to introduce a checklist in this process that when failed will recommend rejection of the proposed EIP due to overwhelming risk.

#### Protocol Risk Oversight

Historically the management of risk has been dealt with on an ad-hoc basis by Core Contributors. The RC will be appointed the body to be responsible for managing risk in protocol policy changes (usually exposed via ECCPs - such as proposed inflation or c-ratio changes). For ECCPs, the same process outlined in the EIP workflow applies.

For external risk, the RC is responsible for providing a public forum to receive any community concerns in relation to ecosystem developments that may affect the risk to the Elysian Protocol as well as be proactive in managing this risk.

### Rationale

<!--This is where you explain the reasoning behind how you propose to solve the problem. Why did you propose to implement the change in this way, what were the considerations and trade-offs. The rationale fleshes out what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work. The rationale may also provide evidence of consensus within the community, and should discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.-->

The existing system whereby risk asesment is not assigned to a particular individual or body presents an existential risk to the Protocol. There have been several incidents over the last year where a more thorough risk assessment could have significantly reduced the risk of EIP implementation. The rapid growth and development of the Elysian Protocol and ecosystem has increased the bandwidth required to manage risk within Elysian.

The nomination and election process of majority of the RC are only picked from a pool of existing members in various governing bodies to ensure that the RC has enough context and reach to be able to perform their analysis effectively. Their stipend amount is also set to be the same as the Elysian Council as to ensure that the individuals are highly incentivized to serve with benevolent intent as risk is a critical aspect of the Elysian Protocol.

### Specification

<!--The technical specification should outline the public API of the changes proposed. That is, changes to any of the interfaces Elysian currently exposes or the creations of new ones.-->

##### Ratification

1. The governing bodies and stake holders will be notified that the Risk Committee will be accepting nomination and elections for the new epoch, the epoch should be set to sync to the current epoch of the other bodies (meaning that the first epoch may be shorter than 3 months)
2. A different nomination sheet will be created for each category from which the members will be selected from
3. The Risk Committee snapshot space will be created for hosting the individual proposals from the nominations above
4. Members will be voted on by the voting strategy used in the Elysian Council elections (quadratic-weighted debt)

##### Operation

1. Risk Committee members will be made known to the community and the Treasury Council will assign a budget to pay for the RC members stipends
2. The EIP workflow will be amended to include the "Risk Analysis" stage
3. The Risk Committee will setup with their internal communications and processes

#### Metagovernance

Upon the approval of this EIP, the Risk Committee election will be conducted. The membership of the Risk Committee will consist of:

1. 2x Core Contributors
2. 1x Elysian Council member
3. 1x Treasury member
4. 1x External community member

The successful candidates from the above will then be appointed a seat within the Risk Committee and entitled to a stipend provided by the Treasury Council.

In addition the TC will set a budget for external risk assessment by the risk committee through engagement with external service providers.

### Examples

<!--Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for EIPs but can be included with the implementation..-->

#### Risk Analysis

A community member authors a EIP, to create a new string of liquidity incentive pools under the Elysian Protocol. The EIP is merged in by the EIP editors and labeled as "Draft". During the CC Sprint Planning, an engineer is assigned to the EIP for feasibility, and the assignee notifies the Risk Committee members via Discord that there is a new EIP that they are conducting feasibility research on.

The Risk Committee schedule a meeting to discuss how the introduction of liquidity incentive pools (in which sUSD is apart of the proposed plan) might affect the system and they come to conclusion that it might cause the sUSD to de-peg. They label it "Review Required" as they think it might be viable to pass if they remove the sUSD pool from the proposal.

#### External Protocol Oversight

The Risk Committee has been operation for a while and has found its rhythm, upon their weekly proactive research they notice that a popular protocol has made a proposal to incentivize the short-selling of the Elysian Network Token. The Risk Committee understands that this may have negative impacts on the Elysian Protocol and rallies the DAO members to help petition against this proposal using governance power managed by the Elysian Ambassadors.

The proposal ultimately ends up failing.

#### Internal Protocol Oversight

A ECCP is made that proposes to decrease the c-ratio to 10%, the Risk Committee upon seeing this ECCP holds a discussion and ultimately comes to the conclusion that it has failed their internal criteria and assigns it a risk summary of "Not Acceptable".

### Configurable Values (Via ECCP)

<!--Please list all values configurable via ECCP under this implementation.-->

- Number of Committee members
- Stipend amount per month
- The quota of members that make up the RC from various bodies

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).