---
eip: 160
network: Ethereum
title: Updated EIP Workflow
status: Implemented
author: Kain Warwick (@kaiynne)
created: 2021-07-13T00:00:00.000Z
requires: 130
type: Governance
---

## Simple Summary

[EIP-130](https://eips.elysian.finance/eips/eip-130) introduced a number of new states in the EIP workflow, this EIP intends to clarify some of the exceptions to this workflow to ensure there is consensus in the community about EIP meta-governance. This EIP also introduces additional meta-data headers to ensure all critical information is tracked within each EIP.

## Abstract

<!--A short (~200 word) description of the proposed change, the abstract should clearly describe the proposed change. This is what *will* be done if the EIP is implemented, not *why* it should be done or *how* it will be done. If the EIP proposes deploying a new contract, write, "we propose to deploy a new contract that will do x".-->

This EIP is a meta-governance EIP to addresses and clarifies the workflow for the EIPs repository specified in EIP-130, by introducing new meta-data and explicit process flows between EIP states.

## Motivation

<!--This is the problem statement. This is the *why* of the EIP. It should clearly explain *why* the current state of the protocol is inadequate.  It is critical that you explain *why* the change is needed, if the EIP proposes changing how something is calculated, you must address *why* the current calculation is innaccurate or wrong. This is not the place to describe how the EIP will address the issue!-->

The introduction of new EIP states in EIP-130 has created some uncertainty within the EIP editors and council. This EIP will reduce that uncertainty and more clearly describe what the the various actors in the EIP process can do.

## Specification

<!--The specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature, there are five sections
1. Overview
2. Rationale
3. Technical Specification
4. Test Cases
5. Configurable Values
-->

### Overview

<!--This is a high level overview of *how* the EIP will solve the problem. The overview should clearly describe how the new feature will be implemented.-->

The following rules will be added to the EIPs process:

1. EIP editor roles can only be assigned by the Council, this is an update to what is stated in EIP-1 which will need to be updated if this EIP passes.
2. The EIP editors are the only ones who can merge to the EIPs repo, this is to ensure correct processes and procedures are adhered to for EIPs and ECCPs.
3. If a EIP author submits a PR to a EIP that is already in “Vote Pending” the EIP editor must notify the council of the change before merging the PR, and if requested move the EIP back into “Feasibility”.
4. If a EIP author submits a PR to a EIP that is already in “Approved” or “Implemented” then the EIP editor must request a review of the change by the Council and, if the change is deemed material by the council, must move the EIP back to “Feasibility”.
5. If a EIP is in “Approved” or “Implemented” and the CC assigned to the EIP no longer believes the EIP is feasible to implement they must notify the Council as soon as is practical that a vote should be held to decide whether to move the EIP to “Rejected”.
6. A vote to move a EIP from “Approved” or “Implemented” to “Rejected” must reference the previous vote and the EIP should be updated with a note to indicate that it was “Rejected” for infeasibility post Approval.
7. EIP editors must merge or close PRs to the EIPs repo within a reasonable time, ideally within two weeks of submission. The Council can request a EIP editor to extend this process if needed to allow governance to assess the EIP.
8. A Council member may at any time request that a EIP be moved from “Rejected” back to “Feasibility” if they believe that the underlying circumstances that caused the EIP to be rejected have changed.
9. EIP editors who fail to adhere to the consensus rules and procedures can be removed at the discretion of the council.
10. A new meta-data field will be added to each EIP, "Implementor" represents the CC or CCs assigned to implement the EIP.
11. A new meta-data field will be added to each EIP, "Release" represents the name of the release under which the EIP was deployed to mainnet.

### Rationale

<!--This is where you explain the reasoning behind how you propose to solve the problem. Why did you propose to implement the change in this way, what were the considerations and trade-offs. The rationale fleshes out what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work. The rationale may also provide evidence of consensus within the community, and should discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.-->

By explicitly describing which state transitions are allowed we constrain the power of the EIP editors to modify the EIPs repo ensuring they are merely maintaining the repo in line with community consensus and are not required to interpret what is the correct process for a EIP in a specific situation. Adding the new meta-data to the EIPs will ensure there is clarity in the community as to who is responsible for each EIP throughout the EIP workflow and into which release the EIP was deployed.

### Technical Specification

<!--The technical specification should outline the public API of the changes proposed. That is, changes to any of the interfaces Elysian currently exposes or the creations of new ones.-->

N/A

### Test Cases

<!--Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for EIPs but can be included with the implementation..-->

N/A

### Configurable Values (Via ECCP)

<!--Please list all values configurable via ECCP under this implementation.-->

N/A

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).